Lab Logs: 12 Years a Slave
2/1/2017
OVERVIEW:
This week’s reading revolved around the travesty of Solomon Northup’s kidnapping and life under slavery, the controversies of the marketing tactics for black feature films such as 12 Years a Slave, and race ideology. 
REFLECTION:
Italian posters:
I will admit that I never noticed that some marketing posters did not include key black characters in movies. It makes sense if marketers try to gear their promotional material to specific audiences. I’d say it’s similar to when food producers market one product differently than another. For example, yogurt for children such as Go-Gurt or Danimals cater to what children think are fun and delicious. Whereas, if these companies were trying to market to an older audience, they would probably emphasize nutrition. Going back to the movie industry, if Couples Retreat was meant for a predominantly white audience, then is it wrong to only showcase their white cast?
Secondly, I think The Guardian article was rightly harsh on the presence of a “white savior”. Brad Pitt was barely in the movie compared to the star – Chiwetel Ejiofor. In other movies, producers have no problem changing the plot to make their protagonist seem all-mighty, virtuous, etc. Yet, for 12 Years A Slave, they want to remain “true to the story.” 
Before reading these articles I did not think that the race of a character in a movie swayed me to watch it versus not. I usually evaluate if I enjoy the genre and if the trailers look interesting enough to spend money and watch it. This may be a result of my own ignorance about race’s role in our everyday lives. 
Race ideology is “is the language of consciousness that suits the particular way in which people deal with their fellows.” Ideology is actually what is observed in social relations. Racism is driven by a recurring misconception that there is a biological determinism in race that our history cannot erase. When biological disability based on race is continuous disproven, many give up and say that racism has “taken on a life of its own.” Fields’ explanation of race ideology and how it has affected American society ruthlessly discloses all the thoughts and misconceptions of what we believe about race to be true. 
Library of Congress photo:
“Fugitive slave laws allowed African Americans who could not prove their free status to be taken into slavery.  What does the political cartoon suggest about negative effects these laws had both on escaped slaves and African Americans like Solomon Northup who were born free?”
I think political cartoons such as these suggest that no matter what African Americans want to do; they will always be held back by white supremacy. Free or not, educated or not, African Americans will always be at the will of the white man. 

EXPAND:  

http://tinypic.com/r/33k9f89/9
I have shared a screenshot of a photo I saw scrolling on Facebook this past fall. I was extremely surprised to see something like this as a “casual photo” that pops up in my newsfeed. In a previous class, I learned about the extent of “black face” and how it has a long history starting as early as the 1850s. “Black face” reminds me of how there is a double standard in our society because, in one sense, “black does not sell” for books or films, yet for a Halloween costume it’s a popular practice. This also reminds me that it is not only black that does not sell, but any other race that isn’t white. There are many contemporary examples of real-life characters that were Asian, Black, or Hispanic that ended up being played by white people. The only example that comes to mind in which a character was meant to be white and was recreated to be black was in The Hunger Games Series with the character, Rue. 

There was a lot of backlash for the change in the portrayal of her character. It is unclear whether the anger was because they did not stay true to the books or that the audience preferred white characters. 

•	QUESTIONS
•	Why are white characters in movies more relatable than colored actors? I find that, even for myself, it can be difficult to relate to Asian-American actors on the big screen.
•	Why did slave traders go through the trouble of kidnapping a freed man? My thoughts against kidnapping freed man would be that he could influence the rest of the slaves that they own. For example, he could teach them how to read, write, and revolt. 
•	What was life like for a freed man to be kidnapped into slavery and then return back into normal life? What were the psychological and social consequences of these experiences?
•	Was it difficult/sad for a slave to leave a just slave owner such as Ford? Were they more than happy to leave and return to their lives or did they feel some sort of loyalty and attachment to their owner?
•	What does Fields mean by “most American’s believe there is only one race, the Negro race”? Does she mean that black is a race but everyone else (Hispanic, Asian, European, etc) is nationalities?


